this is a topic that I thought I had
already recorded a video on but you know
I was really suffering with jet lag at
the time in the last year in the last
two years
jet lag has been a huge factor in my
life quitting caffeine repeatedly has
been a huge factor in my life because I
would drink coffee either to cope with
jet lag or to just cope with some
illnesses like the common cold I had
that's known as made jetlag worse yeah I
realized this is the least dramatic
complaint about my life I got positive
awful but yeah I watched the video I
made after the fact and I hadn't really
gotten the point across and in the same
sense that I think every vegan has a
video on their channel about why I
became vegan how I first became vegan
and a lot of people have a separate
video about how I became a vegan
activist this is really my video about
how I became disillusioned with veganism
what was for me the last straw and that
last straw was when I attended a
conference in Toronto Canada like I say
I made a video discussing this but I
think due to jet lag I sort of talked
around the issue though speaking
directly on the issue an issue is this
went to this conference that brought
together the best and the brightest from
Canada and the northeastern part of the
United States of America and they were
not very good and they were not very
bright admittedly I do to expect this
met a lot of losers I've met a lot of
people who were afraid of me people who
were literally afraid to sit next to me
or stand next to me people who were
afraid to make eye contact with me there
were also fans of my channel there there
were some people who ran up to me and
acted as if I were famous there were
some people who walked up to me and in a
mature and respectable tone said oh hey
I know your YouTube channel I really
appreciate you that happened also a lot
of fear a lot of hostility but you know
what really felt like the last straw for
me was going to this conference and
hearing all of the kind of
pseudo-intellectual about the
future of the movement all the abstract
talk about how to make the movement
better and then waking up one morning to
discover that the participants at this
conference had held a genuinely illegal
in my opinion genuinely violent protest
at a slaughterhouse it was a chicken
processing plant and they had filmed it
and they had uploaded it to Instagram
later was uploaded to YouTube of course
now this some quote-unquote action and
you know there were all these pathetic
human details the guy who was actually
the manager of the plant sympathized
with them and he ordered the workers not
to obstruct them in any way he said look
like he said in effect look I know you
guys are right and are you guys are
doing something well yeah so as it
happened the guy in charge the factory
he didn't want them to be beat up or
kicked out or restrained or something
which obviously the factory workers
would have been within their rights to
do and you know these same people
including John sackers himself John
sackers is a notorious youtuber as well
as being a vegan activist I mean I just
been spending time with them face to
face I had a sense of their characters
had a sense their personalities I had
seen them I've spoken with them I'd
smelled them and these people were
idiots
these people were cowards in the
parlance of their time in the parlance
of our time someone like John sackers in
plain English is what you'd call a
it's just just a pathetic cringing
excuse for human being he's afraid to
look you in the eye he's afraid to talk
to you he goes to the dance party and he
sits there curled up next to the
fireplace and is afraid to get up and
dance and all the attention he's so
desperately seeking on YouTube when he's
there in real life at a vegan conference
or who knows where
who he is you know he's this pathetic
shell of a man and he's in that video
you know storming into this chicken
slaughterhouse whatever gonna say meat
meat processing plant and he's one of
the people who inserts himself in liquid
concrete just to make it very difficult
for the police and ambulance to show up
and extricate them from this liquid
concrete and they took wire cutters and
you know tried to steal some chickens
they try to cut through some cages and
steal some kitchen some chickens inside
they go to this conference and it's not
just the absence of new ideas it's not
just that a lot of people there fear me
and I say fear rather than hate
advisedly it's not just that I go to
this conference and the one is seemingly
new idea people were excited about by
the way was the launch of extinction
rebellion extinction rebellion that's
now basically already ended but that was
just before when extents your vote was
of the way out way up and they they had
this you know Skype conference with the
founder of personal I talked to him
briefly to I got to ask a question back
and forth you know okay so there was
kind of the naivete and stupidity on the
one hand and then there's really this
cynicism and insincerity where they put
on the show and dance of questioning you
know the strategy and the tactics of the
future of the vegan movement how we can
be better activists and all this stuff
but when it really comes down to it what
they are there for they being exactly
the same people were in the room with me
the same people who are in the room
sitting through a lecture on trans
rights and how veganism can be more
accepting and encouraging of transgender
people and all these kind of very
specific topics that specific lectures I
thought okay well you know when you're
wrapped up with all that theoretical
talk all that anyone wants to do is be a
martyr for this movement get themselves
thrown in prison
break the law and very often kind of
overturning exactly what had just been
discussed in the classroom because it
was held in a university campus with a
chalkboard you know what people have
just been talking about the extent to
which getting yourself thrown in prison
or criminalizing the movement is a bad
strategy and tactic and all this stuff
has been talked about
I can I can discuss what I think about
this what really made it feel like the
last straw for me was how I felt about
it it's just emotionally I had so much
contempt for these people and it is a
little bit different when you've been in
the room with them you've seen them you
smell them you've talked to them you've
eaten vegan muffins with them or
whatever is standing around of this
vegan conference and then you see that
video go up the next day you see what
they're really doing you see what
they're really trying to recruit people
for right and I've got a Steve all of
the intellectual pretensions of what was
going on the vegan movement seemed to me
won like a smoke screen because what
they're really recruiting you for is
this so-called direct action is the
violent and illegal you know site of the
movement and then to it it seemed like
it was an insincere beard an insincere
front for the purposes of fundraising
all right um
when I first came on YouTube I said very
clearly I'm here to make friends one of
the reasons I said that was that there
were a lot of hostile militant vegans
who would say to you sort of strange
angry self-righteous way I'm not here to
make friends like they would they would
boast that they're not here to make
friends are here to save the planet or
they're here to liberate the animals
they're here to achieve you know someone
they don't they don't care how many
enemies they make those same people of
course turn out to be cowards they turn
out to be namby-pamby they turned out to
have no spying and no sense of purpose
and resolve but that's kind of another
story there was a lot of that kind of
tough
and I'd said it people oh you're not
here to make friends well I am I am
because when I look at the history of
intellectual movements and political
movements what I see again and again is
they begin with people forming a soul
they begin with five or twelve
intellectuals who meet at a salon and
drink coffee together talking about
their ideas publishing a magazine
publishing a journal publishing a book
doing the research right and in so doing
creating a crossroads for like-minded
people with common objectives and common
grounds to meet a mass and get organized
in the pursuit of political change okay
so I actually am here to make friends
and I see friendship as a very necessary
first phase before taking those other
steps that can include things like
publishing books right
you think publishing books isn't radical
I can name six books right now that
completely transformed the world
including the gospel of Jesus Christ a
book I disagree with the book I despise
I mean I also despise Karl Marx and a
lot of these other people but you can't
deny people wrote books that transform
the world in a way that a street protest
never can write writing books can be the
most radical activity we can engage in
of all purely empirical observation here
I don't like Muhammad the Prophet either
but the book Muhammad the Prophet wrote
changed the whole world
all right go through a long list here
and you could even argue with someone
like Napoleon Napoleon Bonaparte who did
become a dictator nevertheless what he
wrote down on paper including writing a
new law that Napoleonic Code but you
could argue that his writing had even
more influence than the battles he
fought in the wars he won okay I said
from my first appearance here on YouTube
I am here to make friends I think that
friends are an important part of
intellectual life political organization
and the future of the vegan movement one
way or another is going to hobble
forward on the basis of friendships
between highly effective people who are
highly motivated to get slim-fast
and when I went to that event in Toronto
it really felt I went to several events
in Toronto truth be told vegan events
and I thought wow there isn't even one
person here not one person who would be
my colleague not one person who would be
my friend there is neither the beginning
nor the ending of a salon of a movement
of a publication there's absolutely no
hope it's just me it's all on me and if
I'm gonna be a one-man movement let me
tell you something that movement is not
gonna be called veganism